# Contact Groups

Contact Groups are a way of storing a list of phone numbers that you want to send SMS to. We have CRUD API endpoints for Contact Groups, which you can explore [here](http://100.95.56.78:8000/docs#/Contact%20Groups/get_contact_groups_api_contactgroups_get).

!!! tip
    You can also create a contact group by uploading an Excel or CSV file [here](https://smsjet.net/contacts). We highly reccomend using the templates provided for uploading your contacts.

## When should you use Contact Groups?

If you have a group of phone numbers that doesn't change often, Contact Groups can be a useful way of reaching them. 

!!! warning
    One issue with contact groups is that they can fall out of sync with your phone number list. For example, if you add a new phone number to your phone number list, you won't see it in your Contact Group until you add it. 

* **Example Scenario:** You have a small team with 12 people who you want to be alerted when an incident occurs, you can use Contact Groups to send SMS to all of them.

## Updating Contact Groups

One way to avert the issue with Contact Groups falling out of sync with your list of phone numbers is to update your entire Contact Group with a `PUT` request before making a new SMS request.

!!! api
	Method: `PUT`

	Endpoint: `/api/contactgroups/[contact-group-id]`

	Docs: [Contact Groups Documentation](https://smsjet.net/docs#/Contact%20Groups/update_contact_group_api_contactgroups__id__put)

### Removing/Adding a Phone Number to a Contact Group

Some APIs use **PATCH** instead of **PUT**. PUT requests replace the entire object, while PATCH requests only update the fields that are specified. **We use PUT requests** for Contact Groups, so you can easily and efficiently update the **entire Contact Group** with your local list of phone numbers. 

!!! tip
    To add a phone number, you can request the list from the server using a `GET` request, and then add the phone number to the list, and send it back to the API with the `PUT` request.

	Deleting a phone number works similiarly, you can request the list from the server using a `GET` request, and then remove the phone number from the list, and send it back to the API with the `PUT` request.